Improve and re-release chapter 2 (#911)
huggingface/course: chapters/en/chapter2/8.mdx

We'll cover how these tools maximize inference efficiency and simplify production deployments of Large Language Models.

## Framework Selection Guide

TGI, vLLM, and llama.cpp serve similar purposes but have distinct characteristics that make them better suited for different use cases. Let's look at the key differences between them, focusing on performance and integration.

### Memory Management and Performance

**TGI** is designed to be stable and predictable in production, using fixed sequence lengths to keep memory usage consistent. TGI manages memory using Flash Attention 2 and continuous batching techniques. This means it can process attention calculations very efficiently and keep the GPU busy by constantly feeding it work. The system can move parts of the model between CPU and GPU when needed, which helps handle larger models. 

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/tgi/flash-attn.png" alt="Flash Attention" />

<Tip title="How Flash Attention Works">

> Flash Attention is a technique that optimizes the attention mechanism in transformer models by addressing memory bandwidth bottlenecks. As discussed earlier in [section 12.3](2.mdx), the attention mechanism has quadratic complexity and memory usage, making it inefficient for long sequences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flash Attention is a technique that optimizes the attention mechanism in transformer models by addressing memory bandwidth bottlenecks. As discussed earlier in [Chapter 1.8](/course/chapter1/8), the attention mechanism has quadratic complexity and memory usage, making it inefficient for long sequences.
```

The key innovation is in how it manages memory transfers between High Bandwidth Memory (HBM) and faster SRAM cache. Traditional attention repeatedly transfers data between HBM and SRAM, creating bottlenecks by leaving the GPU idle. Flash Attention loads data once into SRAM and performs all calculations there, minimizing expensive memory transfers. 

While the benefits are most significant during training, Flash Attention's reduced VRAM usage and improved efficiency make it valuable for inference as well, enabling faster and more scalable LLM serving.
</Tip>

**vLLM** takes a different approach by using PagedAttention. Just like how a computer manages its memory in pages, vLLM splits the model's memory into smaller blocks. This clever system means it can handle different-sized requests more flexibly and doesn't waste memory space. It's particularly good at sharing memory between different requests and reduces memory fragmentation, which makes the whole system more efficient.

> <Tip title="How Paged Attention Works">

Reviewer: Maintaining consistency in naming:
```suggestion
<Tip title="How PagedAttention Works">
```

> Paged Attention is a technique that addresses another critical bottleneck in LLM inference: KV cache memory management. As discussed in [section 12.3](2.mdx), during text generation, the model stores attention keys and values (KV cache) for each generated token to reduce redundant computations. The KV cache can become enormous, especially with long sequences or multiple concurrent requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PagedAttention is a technique that addresses another critical bottleneck in LLM inference: KV cache memory management. As discussed in [Chapter 1.8](/course/chapter1/8), during text generation, the model stores attention keys and values (KV cache) for each generated token to reduce redundant computations. The KV cache can become enormous, especially with long sequences or multiple concurrent requests.
```

    --threads 4 \           # CPU threads
    --n-gpu-layers 32 \     # Use more GPU layers for larger models
    --mlock \               # Lock memory to prevent swapping
    --cont-batching         # Enable continuous batching
```

For models too large for your GPU, you can use CPU offloading:

```sh
./server \
    -m smollm2-1.7b-instruct.Q4_K_M.gguf \
    --n-gpu-layers 20 \     # Keep first 20 layers on GPU
    --threads 8             # Use more CPU threads for CPU layers
```
{:else}
vLLM uses PagedAttention for optimal memory management:

```python
from vllm.engine.arg_utils import AsyncEngineArgs

engine_args = AsyncEngineArgs(
    model="HuggingFaceTB/SmolLM2-1.7B-Instruct",
    gpu_memory_utilization=0.85,
    max_num_batched_tokens=8192,
    block_size=16,
)

llm = LLM(engine_args=engine_args)
```
{/if}

## Resources

- [Text Generation Inference Documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference)
- [TGI GitHub Repository](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference)
- [vLLM Documentation](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/)
- [vLLM GitHub Repository](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm)
- [PagedAttention Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.06180)

> - [HuggingFace Blog: TGI in Production](https://huggingface.co/blog/tgi-serving)

Reviewer: 404

> - [vLLM Performance Benchmarks](https://vllm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/performance.html)

Reviewer: 404

- [llama.cpp GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp)

> - [llama.cpp Server Documentation](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/blob/master/examples/server/README.md)

Reviewer: 404
